Artificial intelligence is the use of computers to capture human brains in limited domains. This is a result of computer revolution whereby systems developed behave intellectually, reason rationally and have the ability to effectively interpret the environment in real time. Artificial intelligence outperforms every scientist or mathematician in their way of thinking. They have made it possible to simulate complex activities that need professional expertise. Chess playing program is an excellent example of an intellectual system. The specially designed chess engine which plays as the human opponent is capable of counting millions of moves which is incapable to human beings.Artificial intelligence has revolutionized the world of business, gaming, academia, medicine, weather forecasting, controlling flights amongst other fields. It is unquestionable that the implementation and incorporation of artificial intelligence in computer revolution has brought about greater impacts into people’s lives. Many organizations with their different needs have benefited from this revolution. The military for example has been able to design robots to access remote areas that are inaccessible and dangerous to the lives of militants.Artificial intelligence comes with a series of advantages with the most basic ones being costs reduction, speed, flexibility, reliability, durability and duplication. In relation to cost reduction an artificial intelligence system can perform a task that is handled by several workers thus it cuts on wage costs. It is capable of providing an immediate response hence depicting the real time experience. In addition an Artificial intelligence system has no time limitation and has no moods like human beings. These systems are designed to last for long periods of time. Organizations can use them once and again since unlike human beings who die. They can be duplicated to different devices such as computers, smartphones, tablets amongst others without altering their performance.However, it is evident that everything that has merits has demerits therefore the limitations that come along with artificial intelligence includes; they are expensive to acquire and operate due to their inbuilt capabilities, they cannot be used in isolation without the presence of human beings, they can only handle specified tasks that they are designed for e.g. an artificial intelligence system designed for medicine field cannot be used to control aircrafts.In conclusion, artificial intelligence systems have been useful tools in solving complex problems that are seen to be beyond the level of human thinking. Although the characteristics of these systems are drawn from human intelligence, they exhibit more intelligence than the human beings themselves. This is just the beginning in computer revolution and more improvements are likely to be seen in the near future.